In this lesson we will test if we can persist user entity with an invalid information.
And to do that I will create a new test method.
Let's test the user entity for a use case when first name is invalid, for example.
So I will continue when the first name is too long.
When the value of users first name is to loan, then we expect back an exception to be thrown.
And this is because our database column cannot store value longer than the value we have configured
in an entity class.
So it should throw an exception.
Like this we're testing.
User entity one first name is stolen.
Then it should throw an exemption message and I will add arrange act insert sections.
In that range section, I'll need to prepare user details.
And because this year's details are going to be almost exactly the same as in my previous test method,
I will simply move them to a before each lifecycle method.
So above my first test method I will create before each method.
I will call it set up and I will move this user entity to this setup method.
Like this, and in the arranged section of my new test method.
Now we need to provide an invalid value for users first name and this value will need to be longer than
the allowed value.
Let's have a look at what is the allowed value.
I will go back to user entity class and here's my users first name and the maximum length that the users
first name Colon can have is 50 characters alone.
This is a pretty long first name and I actually don't think that someone in the world does have a first
name longer than this.
But anyways, let's try 50 characters.
So in my test method I'll need to provide a first name that is longer than 50 characters.
I will refer to user entity and I will set users first name to something longer than 50 characters.
Something like this.
And in the ACT section, I can persist this entity.
So I will use my test entity manager and I will call persist and flash method providing user entity
as a parameter.
And now I can assert that if we try to persist user object with the user's first name, that is very
long, we will get back an exception.
So this is going to be assert and act and I will use assertions.
I said throws the data type of the exception that I will expect back will be persistence exception.
And from inside of her throws, I can invoke my method under test.
So I will cut this part, paste it here and delete section.
All right.
And if expected, exception does not take place.
I will display an error message in the console.
Something like was expecting persistent exception to be thrown.
Something like this.
All right, so now let's try running this test method and see if it works.
And it passes.
And this confirms that this test method did through a persistence exception.
Now let's try running all test methods in this class.
I will scroll up and we'll run both test methods and both of them should pass.
And here we go.
Both test methods are passing one test method with valid user details and one test method with invalid
users.
First name both of them pass.
All right, so it all works and we're good to continue to the next lesson.